Thank you, Rinpoche. I actually had two questions. One is the first when you're talking about
the three types of paths, the long, short, and the very brief. It seems like in all of
those paths, then a lot of karma has to be purified, regardless. So could you talk a little
bit about the difference in how the techniques of those three paths, like the Sutra Mahayana,
Vajrayana, and Dzogchen, how it purifies karma more quickly, and what we can expect that to
be like? All of these have to be, of course, karma is true. We have to purify karma. But
more than karma, we have to purify two obscurations that you heard, two obscurations. And one
are two obscurations. Two obscurations are the emotional obscurations and knowledge obscurations.
And this karma is in emotional obscurations. Karma is all, is within the territory of the
according to the teaching, is in emotional obscurations, or in a new movement, japa,
hip, the japa. So it's in a new movement, japa. So to reach to the Buddhahood, everyone has to
purify these two obscurations. And that is, in the teaching said, for example, in the Sutra
Mahayana teaching, as we said, I mean, not I'm just saying, in the teaching said, is long distance,
reaching enlightenment, long, long distance or long path. Because why they call it three
countless eons, three countless eons. So three countless eons, so then the path. Now you're
practicing, now you're practicing your cleansing the emotions, emotions, according to teaching,
teaching the first, for example, now we follow the five paths. Five paths, when you're practicing
accumulation path, now you're practicing. Your realization level is healing
of the true nature, or the emptiness, we don't really have perfectly understand of the,
of the emptiness, or the true, true or the emptiness. Perfectly, but in a, in a,
in a team. But we didn't work, because you've examined, you see the teaching, you've examined
your own contemplation, you find this, perfectly is fine, that's true, and then you practice this.
So in, you know, in the teaching, generally what I say, in accumulation path, that practice
have such a strong confidence. They're not lingering within dark or dark, or this practice,
that practice is really so strong. Therefore, they begin to accumulate merit, you know,
virtuous activity, begin to accumulate merit. And among the merit, what accumulate? More
accumulate merit, that you accumulate, one after another. And what emotions with that term,
removing, growth level of the emotion obscurations. Removing, cleaning, and therefore again,
inward, as I said earlier, then what growth see? More calm, more peaceful, more joy, more content,
and less, a little bit small, small bit of the anger, it's kind of less, to remove it, less anger.
I mean, this is small, say that those all know name as the, the sign of the accumulation path is
developed. Then we continue to keep the practices that now we reach to the application path.
So that means, the, now, in the application path, in the application path, now what means the
education? What is the teaching? In the debate of Jollam, Jollam means that also sometimes
translated
the conjunction path. So that means, accumulation path is, is level of the practice, we are
already sentient beings. And the same path is according to Buddhism, noble, noble, noble.
When you realize that you become the noble, or path of the noble. So education path
is beat with that. So what is applicable? You promise samsara or only the level and
applying, applying to the, the noble path. Or from the samsara level, you're conjunct,
conjunct, I believe, conjunct into the noble level. That's the world meaning. Jollam means
public salary. It's going to lead to the noble, noble state of the same path. So now, in the same
path, what is it? Again, the same path in the teaching divided many kind of levels. But I've said,
when you reach the middle of the swing path, now you really, that your realization of the
emptiness of true nature is not just fusion, but it's become more clay, more clay. And kind of in
the teaching said, the prior of the realization is coming soon because I feel the heat of the
heat. So it's even the name of that heat, heat. But you see that warmth and something,
not just a theory only, you really develop. Develop. At that time, inner style of the
realization or the achievement, you have more, more compassion, more loving kindness, more
tolerance,
more passion, and less emotions are less than in the accumulation path. All that become, even maybe
became, have good visions, good dreams of the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, Bodhisattvas, and all that,
in the teaching said. So that turns out again, you reduce. And the emotional level, again,
what is emotional? It's all, all emotion obscurations, that true obscurations,
emotional obscurations. And then you reach to the first Bumi. Now, first Bumi is same path,
same path as we all say, same path is same true nature, exactly as it is.
At that time, now we see the true nature, exactly as it is, in the emotional level, the gross level
of the ego clinging is gone, gross level of the ego clinging, gone, particularly during the
meditation.
And both, better than you'd say, ego clinging is gone. And see the true nature,
exactly as it is. And your love and your compassion, the Muslims are really so strong
and back and understand and knowledge is so strong and so good. And even in the teaching said,
that time that Bodhisattvas, whether it's male or female, can have behold thousand Buddhas,
thousand Buddhas, and the teachings, and also can can change things.
Slide. And for that time, what is now gross emotion? The karma is finishing emotion,
but still there is stain of the karma. So that means stain of the
emotional obscurations, emotional obscurations. The karma, gross karma is gone.
And since karma is gone, that means the source of karma is gross, is gone.
That means source of the karma is the emunions, anger, yellows, hatred toward England, that's gone.
Now you reach for the second Burmese. Second Burmese is the meditation part.
And that is now, in the teaching said, what are you cleansing? What does the practice of this
cleansing put in fire? Now cleansing, the still that left over emotional obscurations,
triggered with the knowledge obscurations. Now begin to walk on knowledge obscurations.
Knowledge obscurations is attachment or grasp. Cleaning, that is cleansing. And now you're doing
that cleansing, cleansing, continuing dynamic of religion, understanding love, and competing with
those are the inequalities of the primordial wisdom. So it's growing stronger and stronger,
and all that continues growing until the earth booming. At the Burmese, now the emotion obsc
urations,
the stain of emotions are completely gone. And the knowledge obscurations are very much reduced,
reduced, almost gone, also knowledge obscurations. Knowledge obscurations. And now you have to deal
three Burmese, and those are known as the feuded Burmese in teaching 9th, Takpa Satsang, and 8th,
9th, and 10th Burmese. And that three Burmese, what do you clean? According to the teaching,
you clean and now stain of the knowledge obscurations. Strain of knowledge obscurations,
and then you're getting smaller and smaller, and then when you reach the 11th Burmese, or that,
at the end of that, then you complete this. The most unsettled of the knowledge obscuration
is cleared away by the most powerful antidote of the realization known as the Vedya Samadhi,
that completely cleared with it. Then you become fully enlightened. So you have to clean all the
karma, and according to Zuki teaching in Vedya and the teaching so far, you immediately, really,
those are not just a process, but you use it like, what's it called? Akman? Akman is a technist.
Akman is a technist. Akman is a technist, transforming those. And Zuki then is a self-liberated
state. So really, he's a great director. He's nothing powerful than that, self-liberated. So
all the Vedya and the technists, Akman, Akman, Akman is like the answer, but again,
you have to clean. There's no way they're not clean. You have to, in the Zuki Masterful,
therefore, but in the Toga practice, they always say that they don't, at Ahtia, they don't clean
in those people.